# Seat Heating System
## Introduction:
The Seat heating method is commonly used to control the temperature. A heating element, which is a long strip of material that acts as a resistor, is used to power heated seats. A resistor is a device that blocks the flow of electricity. When electricity passes through it, the energy is converted to heat, which then passes through the seat and warms the riderThe heater can be turned on by the system. The temperature sensor keeps track of the temperature and sends the analogue value to the microcontroller. The microprocessor interprets the temperature sensor's analogue input and outputs a temperature reading via serial connection. The actions of the control system are totally controlled by an Atmega328 microprocessor. In this project the work is illustrated using SimulIDE software simulation and the functionality of the heat control system is coded in embedded C.

## Research:
The design of a seat heating system is more complex and sophisticated than one might expect. Seat heating systems today are significantly more complex than simple heating components found in blankets and cushions used in the home. Cadillac first offered seat warmers in 1966 to deal alleviate backaches. Car seat warmers, which heat up the seat at the push of a button, are available in some automobiles. The buttons are usually found on the side of the driver's and passenger's doors. Only the bottom of the seat heats up in some vehicles, whereas the bottom and back warm up in others. Heated seats, sometimes known as seat heaters, were once only seen in luxury or high-end vehicles; however, heated seat systems are now used in a wide range of vehicle classes. Many vehicle models have it as an option or as part of a winter package. Furthermore, several electric car manufacturers include it as a standard feature in their vehicles. Seat heaters are offered as an internal device built into the seat, often known as a heated seat, or as an external device in the form of a pad or cushion. External systems are sold as kits in the independent aftermarket.The entire market for automobile seat warmer will benefit from rising sales of passenger cars with seat heaters. Additionally, owners whose vehicles do not come equipped with a seat heater opt to install it aftermarket, benefiting seat heater aftermarket sales.

## Components used
## ATMEGA 328:
ATmega328 is an Advanced Virtual RISC (AVR) microcontroller. It supports 8-bit data processing. ATmega-328 has 32KB internal flash memory. Atmel's ATmega328 is a single-chip microcontroller that belongs to the megaAVR series. It is powered by an 8-bit Atmel AVR CPU and has flash memory and a variety of peripherals. The controllers can work on their own after programming, as long as they have electricity and a quartz crystal with a high clock speed.
## Pin Diagram:


